README.md, before:

# NAV.no - Enonic XP Search

![Build to prod](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20prod/badge.svg)
![Deploy to prod](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20prod/badge.svg) <br>
![Build to Q1](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20Q1/badge.svg)
![Deploy to Q1](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20Q1/badge.svg) |
![Build to Q6](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20Q6/badge.svg)
![Deploy to Q6](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20Q6/badge.svg)

Deployed by [nav-enonicxp-search-actions-runner
](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search-actions-runner)

## How to get started

1. Install Enonic by following the guide at https://developer.enonic.com/start
2. Create a sandbox
```
enonic sandbox start
```
3. Launch admin console
```
open http://localhost:8080/admin
```
4. Download the NAV.no - XP Search Application
```
git clone https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search.git
```

## Development

```
enonic project deploy
``` 

## Deploy

- **Q6:** Run **trigger-deploy-q6.sh** located in the .github folder <br>
`.github/trigger-deploy-q6.sh`
- **Q1:** Merge to develop
- **P:**  Make a PR between master and develop __*__ and create a release at <br /> 
https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/releases <br />
**Obs:** Release must be formatted as **vX.X.X** (e.g v1.2.1)
 
 __*__ PR between master and develop
1. Make a pull request between master and develop
2. Name it "Release: < iso-date of the release> "
3. Write release notes in the comment. Remember to get links to the jira tasks.
  Optimally we get the whole text from Jira when doing the release there. For
  now just check how a previous release pull request looks. Bullet list with
  link to issue and short description.
4. Set the label **Release** on the pull request.
5. After code review merge the pull request to master
6. Deploy the code to production


#### Obs

For at søket skal fungere er man nødt til å legge hunspell inn i XP.
```
cp hunspell $XP_HOME/repo/index/conf/
```
- For mer info se: https://confluence.adeo.no/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=314051832

Commit message:

Added troubleshooting section, with info on facets

README.md, after:

# NAV.no - Enonic XP Search

![Build to prod](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20prod/badge.svg)
![Deploy to prod](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20prod/badge.svg) <br>
![Build to Q1](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20Q1/badge.svg)
![Deploy to Q1](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20Q1/badge.svg) |
![Build to Q6](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Build%20to%20Q6/badge.svg)
![Deploy to Q6](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/workflows/Deploy%20to%20Q6/badge.svg)

Deployed by [nav-enonicxp-search-actions-runner
](https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search-actions-runner)

## How to get started

1. Install Enonic by following the guide at https://developer.enonic.com/start
2. Create a sandbox
```
enonic sandbox start
```
3. Launch admin console
```
open http://localhost:8080/admin
```
4. Download the NAV.no - XP Search Application
```
git clone https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search.git
```

## Development

```
enonic project deploy
```

## Deploy

- **Q6:** Run **trigger-deploy-q6.sh** located in the .github folder <br>
`.github/trigger-deploy-q6.sh`
- **Q1:** Merge to develop
- **P:**  Make a PR between master and develop __*__ and create a release at <br />
https://github.com/navikt/nav-enonicxp-search/releases <br />
**Obs:** Release must be formatted as **vX.X.X** (e.g v1.2.1)

 __*__ PR between master and develop
1. Make a pull request between master and develop
2. Name it "Release: < iso-date of the release> "
3. Write release notes in the comment. Remember to get links to the jira tasks.
  Optimally we get the whole text from Jira when doing the release there. For
  now just check how a previous release pull request looks. Bullet list with
  link to issue and short description.
4. Set the label **Release** on the pull request.
5. After code review merge the pull request to master
6. Deploy the code to production


#### Obs

For at søket skal fungere er man nødt til å legge hunspell inn i XP.
```
cp hunspell $XP_HOME/repo/index/conf/
```
- For mer info se: https://confluence.adeo.no/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=314051832

## Troubleshooting

#### Facet handling

The facet handler has a locking mechanism which is stored in enonic under 'Data Toolbox / Data Tree /
no.nav.navno/ master / root / facetValidation'. In case of a crash during deploy this lock could have been set during the crash. The error handling can't manage to release the lock so this might have to be done manually.

1. Delete the facetValidation from data tool box
2. Restart the search app, this will make the master recreate the structure during startup.
